##front [BBC TV Film Leader]
L6-cue_0b
##front Credits: Cornell University U.S.A., The Character of Physical Law, Professor Richard Feynman gives the Messenger Lectures
L6-cue_0
##Title Probability and Uncertainty: the quantum mechanical view of nature
L6-cue_1
#In the beginning of the history of experimental observation,
L6-cue_2
or any other kind of observation on scientific things,
L6-cue_3
it’s intuition-which is really based just on experience
L6-cue_4
with everyday objects—that suggests reasonable explanations for things.
L6-cue_5
#But as we try to widen, and make more consistent, our description of what we see,
L6-cue_6
as it gets wider and wider and we see a greater range of phenomena,
L6-cue_7
the explanations become what we call laws, instead of simple explanations.
L6-cue_8
But the one important odd characteristic is that they often seem to become more
L6-cue_9
and more unreasonable, and more and more intuitively far from obvious.
L6-cue_10
#To take an example is the relativity theory, in which, for instance, the proposition is
L6-cue_11
that if you think that two things occur at the same time, that’s just a subjective opinion:
L6-cue_12
someone else could conclude that those two events, one was before the other,
L6-cue_13
and that simultaneity is merely a subjective impression.
L6-cue_14
#Now, there’s no reason why this should be otherwise, really.
L6-cue_15
The things of the direct everyday experience involve large numbers of particles,
L6-cue_16
or involve things moving very slowly, or involve other conditions that are very special
L6-cue_17
and represent, in fact, a very limited experience with nature.
L6-cue_18
It’s a small section only that one gets of natural phenomena from a direct experience;
L6-cue_19
it’s only through the refined measurements and careful experimentation
L6-cue_20
that we can get a wider vision—and then we see unexpected things.
L6-cue_21
#We see things that are far from what we would guess; we see things that are very far
L6-cue_22
from what we would—could have imagined.
L6-cue_23
And so our imagination is stretched to the utmost—not as in fiction,
L6-cue_24
to imagine things which aren’t really there, but our imagination is stretched to the utmost just
L6-cue_25
to comprehend those things which are there—and it’s this kind of a situation
L6-cue_26
that I want to talk about tonight.
L6-cue_27
Start, for instance, with the history of light.
L6-cue_28
#At first, light was seen to behave—it would appear to behave—very much like a rain
L6-cue_29
of particles, of "corpuscles," like rain, bullets from a gun, same idea.
L6-cue_30
Then, with further research, it was clear that it was not right,
L6-cue_31
but that light actually behaved like waves, like water waves, for instance.
L6-cue_32
And then in the 20th century, on further research,
L6-cue_33
it appeared that light actually behaved, in many ways, again like particles.
L6-cue_34
In the photoelectric effect you could count these particles—they’re called photons now—and
L6-cue_35
so forth.
L6-cue_36
#Again: electrons, when they were first discovered,
L6-cue_37
behaved exactly like particles—bullets—very simple.
L6-cue_38
Further research showed—in electron diffraction experiments,
L6-cue_39
and so on-that they behaved like waves.
L6-cue_40
As time went on, there was a growing confusion in the question
L6-cue_41
of how the things really behaved—waves or particles,
L6-cue_42
particle or waves—everything looked like both.
L6-cue_43
#Now, this growing confusion was resolved in 1925 or 1926 with the advent
L6-cue_44
of the correct equations for quantum mechanics.
L6-cue_45
Now we know how the particles—how the electrons and how light—behave, but what can I call it?
L6-cue_46
I can say they behave like a particle wave,
L6-cue_47
or they behave in [a] "typical quantum mechanical manner"—there isn’t any word for it.
L6-cue_48
#If I say they behave like particles, I give the wrong impression; if I say they behave
L6-cue_49
like waves, they behave in their own inimitable way—which, technically,
L6-cue_50
could be called the "quantum mechanical way"—they behave in a way that is
L6-cue_51
like nothing that you have ever seen before!
L6-cue_52
Your experience with things that you have seen before is inadequate, is incomplete.
L6-cue_53
The behavior of things on a very tiny scale is simply different: they do not behave just
L6-cue_54
like particles; they do not behave just like waves.
L6-cue_55
#Atoms do not behave like weights hanging on a spring and oscillating, nor do they behave
L6-cue_56
like miniature representations of the solar system, with little planets going
L6-cue_57
around in orbits, nor does it appear to be somewhat like a cloud
L6-cue_58
or fog of some sort surrounding a nucleus—it behaves like nothing that you’ve seen before.
L6-cue_59
#Well, there’s one simplification: at least electrons behave exactly the same,
L6-cue_60
in this respect, as photons—that is, they’re both screwy, but in exactly the same way.
L6-cue_61
How they behave, therefore, takes a great deal of imagination to appreciate,
L6-cue_62
because we are going to describe something which is different than anything you know about.
L6-cue_63
#This—in that respect at least—makes this perhaps the most difficult lecture of the series,
L6-cue_64
in the sense that it’s abstract, in the sense that it is not close
L6-cue_65
to experience-and I cannot avoid that.
L6-cue_66
I could give a series of lectures on the character of physical law,
L6-cue_67
and to leave out from this series the description of the actual behavior of particles
L6-cue_68
on a small scale, I would certainly not be doing the job,
L6-cue_69
because this thing is completely characteristic of all of the particles of nature,
L6-cue_70
and is a universal character; it is, if you want to hear about the character of physical law,
L6-cue_71
essential to talk about this particular aspect.
L6-cue_72
#So it will be difficult.
L6-cue_73
But the difficulty, really, is psychological, and exists in the perpetual torment that results
L6-cue_74
from your saying to yourself, "But how can it be like that!"—which really is a reflection
L6-cue_75
of an uncontrolled, but I say utterly vain desire, to see it in terms
L6-cue_76
of some analogy with something familiar.
L6-cue_77
#I will not describe it in terms of an analogy
L6-cue_78
with something familiar; I will simply describe it.
L6-cue_79
#There was a time when the newspaper said
L6-cue_80
that only twelve men understood the theory of relativity.
L6-cue_81
I don’t believe there ever was such a time: there might have been of time
L6-cue_82
when only one man did, because he’s the only guy who caught on, before he wrote his paper.
L6-cue_83
But after people read the paper, a lot of people kind of understood the theory of relativity
L6-cue_84
in some way or other, but more than twelve.
L6-cue_85
#On the other hand, I think I can safely say that nobody understands quantum mechanics!
L6-cue_86
Now, if you appreciate this, and don’t take the lecture too seriously that you really have
L6-cue_87
to understand, in terms of some model, what I’m going to describe, and just relax and enjoy it,
L6-cue_88
I’m going to tell you what nature behaves like, and if you will simply admit
L6-cue_89
that maybe she does behave like this, you will find her a delightful, entrancing thing.
L6-cue_90
#So that’s the way to look at the lectures—not to try to understand.
L6-cue_91
(Well, you have to understand the English, of course.)
L6-cue_92
But, in any sense, in terms of something else, don’t keep saying to yourself,
L6-cue_93
if you can possibly avoid it, "But how could it be like that!"
L6-cue_94
Of course, you’ll get down the drain; you’ll get down into a blind alley which nobody has
L6-cue_95
yet escaped-nobody knows how it can be like that.
L6-cue_96
#So then just let me describe to you the behavior of electrons, or a photon,
L6-cue_97
in their typical quantum mechanical way.
L6-cue_98
Now, the way I’m going to do this is by a mixture of analogy and contrast.
L6-cue_99
If I made a pure analogy we would fail, so it must be analogy and contrast
L6-cue_100
to things that you’re familiar with.
L6-cue_101
#And so I make it, by analogy and contrast, first to the behavior of particles,
L6-cue_102
for which I will use bullets, and second, to the behavior of waves, for which I will use,
L6-cue_103
say, water waves, or sound waves.
L6-cue_104
#So we begin.
L6-cue_105
First, to discuss in a particular—what I’m going to do is,
L6-cue_106
I’m going to invent a particular experiment, and first tell how it would behave,
L6-cue_107
what the situation would be, in that experiment using particles, [then] what you would expect
L6-cue_108
to happen if waves were involved, and then what happens
L6-cue_109
when there are actually electrons or photons in the system.
L6-cue_110
#I will just take this one experiment which has been designed to contain all of the mystery
L6-cue_111
of quantum mechanics to put you up against the paradoxes and mysteries
L6-cue_112
and peculiarities of nature 100 percent.
L6-cue_113
Any other situation in quantum mechanics, it turns out, can always be explained afterwards
L6-cue_114
by saying, "You remember the case of the experiment with the two holes?
L6-cue_115
It’s the same thing."
L6-cue_116
#So I’m going to tell you about the experiment with the two holes,
L6-cue_117
which is the general mystery: it contains, it does contain,
L6-cue_118
the general mystery; I am avoiding nothing.
L6-cue_119
I am baring nature in her most elegant and difficult form.
L6-cue_120
#So you start with bullets.
L6-cue_121
All the experiments are going to be in the same general design, so I’ll draw it this way:
L6-cue_122
suppose that we have some source of bullets, which just represents the source,
L6-cue_123
which we call "the source"—and is, in fact, in the case of bullets, a machine gun.
L6-cue_124
Then we have a plate in front here, with a hole in it for the bullets to come out of,
L6-cue_125
and this plate, in the case of bullets, is armor plate.
L6-cue_126
Then a long distance from here we have another plate, which I’m drawing only a short distance,
L6-cue_127
because I haven’t got room on the blackboard for everything, but this distance is supposed
L6-cue_128
to be much longer in proportion to the width.
L6-cue_129
#Please expand that; that’s a small point, and it has two holes
L6-cue_130
in it—that’s the famous "two—hole" business.
L6-cue_131
#I’m going to talk a lot about these holes, so I’ll talk about this hole
L6-cue_132
as Number 1 Hole, and the other hole as Number 2.
L6-cue_133
And I’m only drawing it in two dimensions.
L6-cue_134
You can, if you wish, imagine these as round holes in three dimensions,
L6-cue_135
but just say it’s a cross section.
L6-cue_136
#And then again, a long distance away (but we’ll draw it relatively short distance,
L6-cue_137
because of the limitations of this blackboard), we have another screen here,
L6-cue_138
which is just a backstop of some sort, into and on which we can put
L6-cue_139
in various places what I will call a detector—I’m going to mark
L6-cue_140
that "detector"—which, in the case of the bullets,
L6-cue_141
is a box of sand into which the bullets will be caught,
L6-cue_142
and we can count them—that’s the detector for bullets.
L6-cue_143
#I don’t want to have to redraw the experiment each time so I’ll label everything in this way,
L6-cue_144
and then we’ll be able to catch on to situations for different cases.
L6-cue_145
Also, I’m going to do experiments in which I count how many bullets come into this detector,
L6-cue_146
or box of sand, when the box is here, or here, or here, or here; and to describe that,
L6-cue_147
I’ll measure the distance of the box from somewhere out here, and call that X—and I talk
L6-cue_148
about what happens when we change X: it means only you move the doggone thing up and down.
L6-cue_149
#All right.
L6-cue_150
#Now first, I would like to make a few modifications from real bullets
L6-cue_151
into idealizations: the first is, the machine gun is very shaky and wobbly,
L6-cue_152
and that the bullets go in various directions, not just exactly straight on and bounce back,
L6-cue_153
and they can ricochet off the edges of the slips—the slits,
L6-cue_154
rather-the holes in these armor plates.
L6-cue_155
#Let’s say, for instance, that the bullets have all the same speed or energy,
L6-cue_156
if you want (but that’s not very important), but the most important idealization
L6-cue_157
in which it differs from real bullets is: I want these bullets to be absolutely indestructible,
L6-cue_158
so that what we find in the box is not pieces of lead of some bullet that broke
L6-cue_159
in half; we get the whole bullet, please.
L6-cue_160
So imagine indestructible bullets, or hard bullets and soft armor plate, or something.
L6-cue_161
#Now, the first thing that we will notice about bullets is that the things that arrive come
L6-cue_162
in lumps: when the energy comes, it’s all in one bullet—full of bang.
L6-cue_163
If you count the bullets, there’s 1, 2, 3, 4 bullets—the things come in lumps;
L6-cue_164
they’re equal in size, we suppose, in this case.
L6-cue_165
When a thing comes into the box, it’s either all in the box
L6-cue_166
or it’s not in the box—it comes in lumps.
L6-cue_167
#More: if I put up two boxes here, I never get two bullets in the boxes at the same time.
L6-cue_168
(Well—if the gun isn’t going off too fast and I have enough time between—slow down the gun
L6-cue_169
so they go off very slowly, bing, bing—bing, bing—then put the two things here,
L6-cue_170
and look very quickly in the two boxes, you’ll never get two bullets at the time
L6-cue_171
in the two boxes, because a bullet is a single identifiable lump.)
L6-cue_172
I call that characteristic of the object that it comes in lumps.
L6-cue_173
#The first thing about bullets is that they come in lumps.
L6-cue_174
Now, what I’m going to measure is how many bullets arrive here
L6-cue_175
on the average in a long period of time.
L6-cue_176
Say you wait an hour, and you count how many bullets are
L6-cue_177
in the can-in the sand-and average that.
L6-cue_178
#Now, we call that, if you want per—let’s say we take a definite time, like, per hour,
L6-cue_179
and say the number of bullets that arrive per hour, and sometimes you could call
L6-cue_180
that what’s called the probability of arrival, because it just gives the chance
L6-cue_181
that a bullet going through this thing arrives
L6-cue_182
in this particular box—at least it’s proportionate to the chance.
L6-cue_183
#One way to measure is to measure the average number of bullets
L6-cue_184
that arrive over a period of time.
L6-cue_185
Now, the number of bullets that arrive in this box here will vary as I vary X:
L6-cue_186
I’m going to make a graph here in which I plot horizontally the number of bullets that I get
L6-cue_187
if I hold this thing here for an hour.
L6-cue_188
I’ll get a curve that will probably look more or less like this
L6-cue_189
because when the box is behind one of these holes, it gets a lot of bullets—it gets the ones
L6-cue_190
that went through this hole—and otherwise it gets in the one through this hole,
L6-cue_191
and if it’s a little bit out of line it doesn’t get as many (they have
L6-cue_192
to bounce a little off the edges of the hole, and so it disappears like this).
L6-cue_193
#This is the number that we get in an hour when both holes are open.
L6-cue_194
I call that by an abbreviation, N—1—2, which merely means the number which arrives
L6-cue_195
when Hole Number 1 and Hole Number 2 are both open.
L6-cue_196
Looks like that, say.
L6-cue_197
#Now, I must insist that the number that we’re plotting here doesn’t come in lumps;
L6-cue_198
it can have any size it wants—for example, there can be two and a half bullets in an hour.
L6-cue_199
In spite of the fact that the bullets come in lumps, what I mean by two and a half bullets
L6-cue_200
in an hour is, that if you run a long time, like 10 hours, you get 25 bullets,
L6-cue_201
so it’s on the average two and a half bullets.
L6-cue_202
The N can have any size; it doesn’t have to be in lumps because it’s an average.
L6-cue_203
#I’m sure you’re all familiar with the joke about the fact that the average family
L6-cue_204
in the United States seems to have two and a half children.
L6-cue_205
It doesn’t mean that there’s a half a child in any family whatever; the children come in lumps.
L6-cue_206
But nevertheless, when you take the average number per family,
L6-cue_207
it can be any number whatsoever.
L6-cue_208
#And so this number N, which is the number that will arrive in this container per hour
L6-cue_209
on the average, need not be an integer—it can be a tenth,
L6-cue_210
which would mean under those circumstances that you’d have to wait
L6-cue_211
on the average 10 hours, more or less, per bullet.
L6-cue_212
What we measure, then, is the probability of arrival,
L6-cue_213
which is a technical measure, the probability of arrival.
L6-cue_214
It is a technical term, really, for the average number that arrive in a given length of time.
L6-cue_215
#Now, finally, if we go to analyze this curve N—1—2, we can interpret it very nicely:
L6-cue_216
we can interpret it as a sum of two curves, which I will draw here.
L6-cue_217
(That’s why I need the blackboard where I’ve got several cases, so I draw two curves here.)
L6-cue_218
One which would represent what I’ll call N—1.
L6-cue_219
The number which would come if Hole Number 2 is closed by another piece of armor plate in front,
L6-cue_220
and so they all come through Number 1.
L6-cue_221
N-2 would be the number that come through Hole Number 2 alone.
L6-cue_222
So N—1 is the number that come through Hole Number 1 alone, and N—2 is the number that come
L6-cue_223
through Hole Number 2 alone, those numbers being determined by closing the respective holes.
L6-cue_224
#Then we discover a very important law, which is that the number that arrive
L6-cue_225
with both holes open is the number that arrive by coming
L6-cue_226
through Number 1 Hole plus the number that come through Number 2 Hole.
L6-cue_227
This proposition-the fact that all you have
L6-cue_228
to do is add these two together—I’d call "nice," or "no interference."
L6-cue_229
That is, what you get from the two holes open is the same as you’d get
L6-cue_230
by simply adding each hole separately.
L6-cue_231
That’s for bullets.
L6-cue_232
#Done-we’re done with bullets.
L6-cue_233
#All right.
L6-cue_234
I begin again, this time with water waves.
L6-cue_235
Here is standing some kind of a big mass of stuff which is being shaken up and down.
L6-cue_236
This is a long line of barges, or jetties, with a gap in the water inbetween.
L6-cue_237
(Perhaps it’s better to do it with ripples than it is to do it
L6-cue_238
with big ocean waves; it sounds more sensible.)
L6-cue_239
I wiggle my finger up and down here, and I have a little piece of wood here,
L6-cue_240
and ripples start out here, and then I’ve arranged in a tank to put boards in the way here
L6-cue_241
so that I have these two holes, and then I have this so—called detector.
L6-cue_242
#Then what I do with the detector—what the detector detects is how much the water is
L6-cue_243
jiggling: for instance, I put a cork in the water and measure how it moves up and down.
L6-cue_244
What I’m going to measure, in fact, is the energy of the agitation of the cork,
L6-cue_245
which is exactly proportional to the energy carried by the waves.
L6-cue_246
#Also, I forgot to say that this jiggling is made very regular and perfect,
L6-cue_247
so that the waves are all of the same spacing from one another,
L6-cue_248
and then I’ll describe what we get under those circumstances.
L6-cue_249
#For that, I first remark—well, let’s see: first we can measure the energy of the cork.
L6-cue_250
But then another thing is important for light, or for water waves—for waves,
L6-cue_251
water waves—is that the thing that we’re measuring can have any size at all:
L6-cue_252
we’re measuring the intensity of the waves, or the energy in the cork;
L6-cue_253
if the waves are very quiet, if the fellow over here is only jiggling a little bit,
L6-cue_254
then there will be very little motion
L6-cue_255
to the cork-no matter how much it is, it’s proportional.
L6-cue_256
So I can have any size.
L6-cue_257
It doesn’t come in lumps, it’s not all there or nothing.
L6-cue_258
#What we’re going to measure is the intensity of the waves, which to be precise, if you want,
L6-cue_259
is the energy generated by the waves at a point.
L6-cue_260
Now, what happens if we measure the intensity, which I’ll draw on a third curve here,
L6-cue_261
which I’ll call "I"-to remind you it’s an intensity, and not a number of particles
L6-cue_262
of any kind, and I-1-2 when both holes are open—is a curve that looks something like this:
L6-cue_263
another interesting, complicated—looking curve, which ought to be symmetrical.
L6-cue_264
#(I didn’t do too badly, actually.)
L6-cue_265
#A very complicated—looking curve.
L6-cue_266
That is, if we put the [detector] in different places, we get a very, very different intensity
L6-cue_267
which varies very rapidly in a peculiar manner.
L6-cue_268
You’re probably all familiar with the reason for that.
L6-cue_269
The reason is that the ripples, as they come out of here, have crests and troughs spreading
L6-cue_270
from here, and they have crests and troughs spreading from here.
L6-cue_271
#Now, if we’re at a place which, say, is exactly even between these two things
L6-cue_272
so that the two waves arrive at the same time, the crests will come on top of each other
L6-cue_273
and there’ll be plenty of jiggling, which is the exact opposite of this curve—so I’ll have
L6-cue_274
to put-there should be another bump.
L6-cue_275
You have a lot of jiggling right in dead center.
L6-cue_276
#On the other hand, if I were to move to some point here, since I’m further from Hole 2
L6-cue_277
than Hole 1, it takes a little longer for the waves to come from 2 than from 1.
L6-cue_278
When 1 has a crest arriving, the crest hasn’t quite reached there yet from 2—in fact,
L6-cue_279
it’s a trough from 2—so that water tries to move up, and it tries to move down,
L6-cue_280
from the influences of the waves coming from the two holes, and the net result is it doesn’t move
L6-cue_281
at all, or practically not at all, and so we have these low bumps at that place.
L6-cue_282
And then if you move still further over, you get enough delay that when a crest is here,
L6-cue_283
this other crest is one whole wave behind, so it’s a crest that—two crests are coming on top
L6-cue_284
of each other, but not the same crest, so to speak.
L6-cue_285
#The fourth crest from here, and the fifth crest from there on top, so you get a big one again,
L6-cue_286
then a small one, a big one, a small one, depending upon the way the crests
L6-cue_287
and troughs interfere, as we say.
L6-cue_288
#The word "interference," again, is used in science in a funny way,
L6-cue_289
because we’ll have what we call "constructive interference":
L6-cue_290
when they both interfere here, it makes it stronger.
L6-cue_291
Well, they call it interference anyway, but the very important thing is
L6-cue_292
that I-1-2 is not the same as I-1 plus I-2, and we say it shows interference—yes, interference;
L6-cue_293
that’s a funny term, we use it—constructive and destructive interference.
L6-cue_294
#I didn’t mention what I-1 and I-2 look like,
L6-cue_295
but we can find out by closing this, for instance, to find I-1.
L6-cue_296
The intensity that you get here, if the hole is closed, is simply the waves from one hole,
L6-cue_297
for which there’s no interference, and that’s this curve.
L6-cue_298
N-1 is the same as I-1, and the same way, otherwise,
L6-cue_299
I-2—and this curve is quite different than the sum of these two.
L6-cue_300
#As a matter of fact, the mathematics of this curve is rather an interesting one.
L6-cue_301
What is true is this: that the height of the water, when both holes are open,
L6-cue_302
is equal to the height that you would get from Number 1 open,
L6-cue_303
plus the height that you would get from Number 2 open.
L6-cue_304
#Thus, if it’s a trough, the height from 2 is negative, and cancels out the height from 1.
L6-cue_305
#So you can represent it by talking about the height of the water,
L6-cue_306
but it turns out that the intensity, in any case (for instance,
L6-cue_307
when both holes are open) is not the same as the height, but it’s proportional to the square
L6-cue_308
of the height, and it’s because of this fact, that we’re dealing with the squares,
L6-cue_309
that we get these very interesting curves.
L6-cue_310
#All right.
L6-cue_311
#Now we erase the machinery and start over; this time we start with electrons.
L6-cue_312
We have a filament here, tungsten plate, holes in the tungsten plate,
L6-cue_313
and for a detector any electrical system which is sufficiently sensitive to pick up the charge
L6-cue_314
of an electron arriving with whatever energy the source has.
L6-cue_315
#Or, if you would prefer, we could use photons: this is a black paper with a hole in it,
L6-cue_316
two holes in another sheet of black paper (paper isn’t very good,
L6-cue_317
because the fibers don’t make a sharp hole, so use something better), and here, for a detector,
L6-cue_318
a photomultiplier that can detect the individual photons arriving.
L6-cue_319
#Now, what happens with either case—and I’ll discuss only the electron case;
L6-cue_320
the other case is exactly the same, the case with photons—is this: first,
L6-cue_321
that what we receive in this electrical detector,
L6-cue_322
with a sufficiently powerful amplifier behind it, are clicks.
L6-cue_323
Click, click-click-click, and so on, with the source here—lumps, absolutely lumps:
L6-cue_324
when the click comes it’s a certain size, and the size is the same.
L6-cue_325
#If you turn the source weaker, the clicks come further apart, but it’s the same size click.
L6-cue_326
If you turn it up, they go click- click-click-click-click,
L6-cue_327
and it jams the amplifier-you have to turn it down enough that there aren’t too many clicks
L6-cue_328
for the machinery that you’re using to detect.
L6-cue_329
#Next, if you were to put up another detector here, and listen to both of them,
L6-cue_330
you’d never get two clicks at the same time (at least if the source is weak enough)
L6-cue_331
because of the precision with which you measure the same time: if you cut down the intensity
L6-cue_332
of the source so they come few and far between, they never come a click in both detectors.
L6-cue_333
#That means that the thing which is coming, comes in lumps: it has a definite size,
L6-cue_334
and it only comes to one place at a time.
L6-cue_335
#All right, so for electrons—or for photons, we’ll just use electrons—it comes in lumps.
L6-cue_336
#Therefore, what we can do is the same thing as we did with the bullets:
L6-cue_337
we measure how many come; we measure the probability of arrival.
L6-cue_338
What we do is we hold the detector in a certain place.
L6-cue_339
(Actually, if we wanted to, although it’s expensive, we could put detectors all
L6-cue_340
over at the same time, and make the whole curve simultaneously.)
L6-cue_341
#But let’s suppose we put it at a certain place, and we measure at the end
L6-cue_342
of an hour how many electrons came, and we average it.
L6-cue_343
(By the way, if I put detectors all along the back here, when one comes it comes into one,
L6-cue_344
but not [into] others: it’s just one goes off, then the other goes off, and this goes off,
L6-cue_345
and that one goes off, and so on—just like with bullets.)
L6-cue_346
#We measure, then, the probability of arrival of the electrons.
L6-cue_347
And what do we get?
L6-cue_348
The number of electrons that arrive—the same kind of an N-1-2 as before.
L6-cue_349
This is what we get for N-1-2.
L6-cue_350
N-1-2, this is what we get with both holes open!
L6-cue_351
#That’s the phenomena of nature: that she produces the curve which is the same
L6-cue_352
as you would get from an interference of waves.
L6-cue_353
#But she produces a curve for what?
L6-cue_354
Not for the energy in a way but for the probability of arrival of one of these lumps.
L6-cue_355
The mathematics is simple.
L6-cue_356
You change I to N, and you have to change H to something else, which is new,
L6-cue_357
and you call it something, because it’s not the height of anything,
L6-cue_358
but it in order [to express this] curve as a simple mathematical form, there’s an A,
L6-cue_359
which can be represented as an A-1 plus an A-2,
L6-cue_360
which we call a probability amplitude (because we don’t know what it means), which,
L6-cue_361
to arrive from Hole 1, plus the probability amplitude to arrive from Hole 2,
L6-cue_362
and you add the two together to get the total probability amplitude to arrive, and square it.
L6-cue_363
#It’s a direct imitation of what happens with the waves, because we’ve got to get the same curve
L6-cue_364
out so we use the same mathematics.
L6-cue_365
#Let’s find out if-I’d better check on one point, though, about the interference:
L6-cue_366
I forgot to say what happens if we close one of the holes.
L6-cue_367
Let’s try to analyze this interesting curve, which now, for electrons (I erase all the stuff
L6-cue_368
with the light, so everything with light is erased, and now we’re talking about electrons;
L6-cue_369
this curve isn’t important in our case) this is the number which arrives.
L6-cue_370
#Now, we would like to analyze this curve.
L6-cue_371
We try this: we say, "Maybe it comes—we can analyze this—by thinking that the electrons come
L6-cue_372
through this hole or through the other"—so we can close one hole and measure how many come
L6-cue_373
through Hole Number 1, and we get that curve; or, we can close this hole,
L6-cue_374
and measure how many come through Hole Number 2, and we get that curve.
L6-cue_375
These two added together is not this, and so this is not the same
L6-cue_376
as N-1 plus N-2—it does show interference; it shows interference.
L6-cue_377
#And in fact the mathematics is given by this funny formula that the probability
L6-cue_378
of arrival is the square of an amplitude, which itself is the sum of two pieces.
L6-cue_379
Now, nobody-a question is, how can that come about, that when they go through Hole 1,
L6-cue_380
they would be distributed this way; when they go through Hole 2, they would be distributed
L6-cue_381
that way; how could it be that when both holes are open, you don’t get the sum of the two?
L6-cue_382
#Instance: if I hold the detector at this point here, I get practically nothing.
L6-cue_383
If I close one of the holes, I get plenty.
L6-cue_384
If I close the other hole, I get something.
L6-cue_385
If I leave both holes open, I get nothing—if I let them go
L6-cue_386
through both holes, they don’t come anymore.
L6-cue_387
#Or take the point in the center: you can show that that’s higher than the sum that it was
L6-cue_388
in the other case, than the sum of these two; I get more here when both holes are open,
L6-cue_389
than I would get with either one of the two closed.
L6-cue_390
#Now you might think that if you were clever enough, you could argue that they have some way
L6-cue_391
of going around through the holes, back and forth, and they do something complicated,
L6-cue_392
or it splits in half and goes through the two holes, and so forth,
L6-cue_393
in order to explain this phenomenon.
L6-cue_394
#Nobody, however, has succeeded to get an explanation of this that’s satisfactory,
L6-cue_395
because the mathematics in the end is so very simple—the curve is so very simple.
L6-cue_396
#I will summarize, then, by saying that electrons arrive in lumps, like particles.
L6-cue_397
But the probability of arrival of these lumps is determined like the intensity of waves would be.
L6-cue_398
It is in this sense that the electron behaves, as you might say, sometimes like a particle,
L6-cue_399
and sometimes like a wave; it behaves in these two different ways
L6-cue_400
at the same time-that’s all there is to say.
L6-cue_401
#I give a mathematical description to figure out the probability of arrival of electrons
L6-cue_402
on any circumstances, and that would, in principle, be the end of the lecture-except
L6-cue_403
that there are a number of subtleties involved in the fact that nature works this way;
L6-cue_404
there’s a number of peculiar things, and I would like to discuss those peculiarities,
L6-cue_405
because they may not be self—evident at this point.
L6-cue_406
#To discuss the subtleties, we begin by discussing a proposition
L6-cue_407
which we would have thought to use since these things are lumps:
L6-cue_408
since what comes is always one complete "p ah" (which I’ll call an electron—one complete lump,
L6-cue_409
one complete electron), it’s obvious that it’s reasonable
L6-cue_410
that either an electron arrives—or goes, let’s say—that either an electron goes
L6-cue_411
through Hole Number 1, or it goes through Hole Number 2.
L6-cue_412
#That seems like .
L6-cue_413
. . that seems very obvious that it can’t do anything else if it’s a lump.
L6-cue_414
#I’m going to discuss this proposition, so I have to give it a name;
L6-cue_415
I’ll call it Proposition A. Now, we’ve already discussed a little bit what happens
L6-cue_416
with Proposition A. If it were true that an electron either goes through Hole Number 1
L6-cue_417
or it goes through Hole Number 2, then the total number which arrive here would have
L6-cue_418
to be analyzable as the sum of two contributions—the total number
L6-cue_419
which arrive here will be the number that come here via Hole 1 plus the number
L6-cue_420
that come via Hole 2—and since this curve cannot easily be analyzed as the sum of two pieces
L6-cue_421
in such a nice manner, and since the experiments
L6-cue_422
which determine how many would have arriven—would have arrived—if only Hole Number 1
L6-cue_423
were open don’t give the result that this number is the sum of these two,
L6-cue_424
it is obvious that we should conclude that this Proposition is false—it is not true,
L6-cue_425
that the electron either comes through Hole Number 1 or Hole Number 2;
L6-cue_426
maybe [the electron] divides itself in half temporarily, and so on.
L6-cue_427
#So Proposition A is false.
L6-cue_428
#That’s logic.
L6-cue_429
#Unfortunately (or otherwise), we can test logic by experiment, and so we just have to do—to find
L6-cue_430
out whether it’s true or not that the electrons come through Hole 1 and Hole 2 (or maybe they go
L6-cue_431
around through both holes, or they split up, and so on).
L6-cue_432
. . —all we have to do is watch them.
L6-cue_433
#To watch them we need light.
L6-cue_434
So we put back here, behind the holes, a source of light—very intense light.
L6-cue_435
Light is scattered by electrons; it’s bounced off electrons—in other words,
L6-cue_436
you can see electrons as they go by if the light’s strong enough.
L6-cue_437
#We stand back here, and we look to see whether we see, when the electron is counted here,
L6-cue_438
a flash-or have seen, the moment before the electron is counted here, a flash behind Hole 1,
L6-cue_439
or a flash behind Hole 2, or maybe a sort of "half flash" in each place
L6-cue_440
at the same time—because we’re going to find out, now, how it goes, by looking!
L6-cue_441
#Well, you turn on the light and look.
L6-cue_442
And lo, you discover that you see flashes behind either one hole
L6-cue_443
or the other hole every time you get a count here.
L6-cue_444
Every time there’s a count here, you see a flash behind Number 1, or behind Number 2.
L6-cue_445
#What you see is that the electron comes 100 percent complete
L6-cue_446
through Hole 1 or through Hole 2—when you look.
L6-cue_447
#Kind of a paradox.
L6-cue_448
#Well, let’s squeeze nature into some kind of a difficulty here:
L6-cue_449
I’ll show you what we’re going to do, see .
L6-cue_450
. . We’re going to keep the light on; we’re going to watch.
L6-cue_451
And you’re going to count—we’re going to count how many electrons come through.
L6-cue_452
We’re going to make two columns.
L6-cue_453
I’ll watch the holes very carefully while you, please,
L6-cue_454
count how many are arriving in the detector.
L6-cue_455
#All right, you say, one arrived.
L6-cue_456
I said, I saw that when it went through Hole Number 1.
L6-cue_457
We put here two columns, which is column one for Number 1 Hole and [Column 2 for] Number 2 Hole.
L6-cue_458
Every time you get one, you tell me you got one I have seen it,
L6-cue_459
of course, and I say either Number 1 or 2.
L6-cue_460
#The first one was 1, what’s the next one?
L6-cue_461
Number 2. All right.
L6-cue_462
Number 2, Number 2, Number 1, so on.
L6-cue_463
#As we watch the electrons—as I watch the electrons, for every one that you count,
L6-cue_464
I can separate them experimentally into two columns: them that have arrived via Hole 1
L6-cue_465
and those (I know the English is right; I’m just trying to) that arrived via Hole 2.
L6-cue_466
So the number—the total number that arrived—well, first, what does this column look
L6-cue_467
like when you add it all together for different positions here, which is just the number
L6-cue_468
that have supposed to have come through 1.
L6-cue_469
#I watch behind 1 and what do I see?
L6-cue_470
#I see this curve-that column is distributed this way, just like we thought when we closed Hole 2;
L6-cue_471
it works the same way whether we’re looking or not: if we close Hole 2,
L6-cue_472
we get the same distribution—those that arrive [are] as if we were watching.
L6-cue_473
Likewise, in this column that is supposed
L6-cue_474
to have arrived via Hole Number 2, is also the simple curve.
L6-cue_475
#Now, look, the total number which arrives has
L6-cue_476
to be the total number—I’m just counting little marks!
L6-cue_477
It has to be the sum of this number plus that number.
L6-cue_478
The total number which arrived absolutely has to be the sum of these two;
L6-cue_479
it has to be distributed this way!
L6-cue_480
I said it was distributed this way;
L6-cue_481
it’s distributed this way—it really is, of course; it has to be.
L6-cue_482
It is. It’s distributed this way.
L6-cue_483
#If, then, we mark with a prime the results when a light is lit (prime means with a light lit),
L6-cue_484
then we find N-1-prime is practically the same as N-1 without the light,
L6-cue_485
and N-2-prime is almost the same as N-2.
L6-cue_486
But the number that we see when the light is on is not—is equal, is equal—to the number
L6-cue_487
that we see through 1 plus the number that we see through 2.
L6-cue_488
#This is the result that we get when the light is on.
L6-cue_489
In other words, we get a different answer whether I turned on the light or not.
L6-cue_490
If I have the light turned on, this is the distribution which you measure over here.
L6-cue_491
If I turn off the light, this is the distribution that you measure over here.
L6-cue_492
Turn on the light, this is the answer; turn off the light, that’s the answer.
L6-cue_493
#See, nature’s squeezed out.
L6-cue_494
#Now, we could say then, that the light affects the result.
L6-cue_495
If the light is on, you get a different answer than if the light is off.
L6-cue_496
If you want to, you could say there are light effects, it does affect.
L6-cue_497
In fact, we’ve found by this experiment we get a difference with the light on and off.
L6-cue_498
#Light affects the behavior of electrons.
L6-cue_499
#If you want to talk about the motion of the electrons through here,
L6-cue_500
which is a little inaccurate, you can: you can say that the light affects the motion,
L6-cue_501
so that those which might have arrived at the maximum are somehow been deviated or kicked
L6-cue_502
by the light and arrived at the minimum instead, thus smoothing the curve to produce this thing.
L6-cue_503
#You see, electrons are very delicate.
L6-cue_504
#Although, when you’re looking at a baseball and you shine light on it,
L6-cue_505
it doesn’t make any difference, the baseball goes the same way.
L6-cue_506
#Electrons are very flimsy, very delicate, and when you shine a light on,
L6-cue_507
a little tough on the electron, it knocks them about a bit, and instead of doing that,
L6-cue_508
they do this, because you turned the light on so strong—you hit ’em with a hammer;
L6-cue_509
it’s not just a delicate thing like when you’re looking at a baseball with light.
L6-cue_510
#There, you hit ’em with a hammer.
L6-cue_511
#But you used-you turned up the light too strong: turn it weaker and weaker and weaker
L6-cue_512
until it’s very dim, and then use very careful detectors
L6-cue_513
that can see very dim light, and look with the dim light.
L6-cue_514
Now, as the light gets dimmer and dimmer, you can’t expect with very, very,
L6-cue_515
very weak light to affect the electron so completely as to change the pattern 100 percent
L6-cue_516
from this pattern to this pattern; as the light gets weaker and weaker and weaker,
L6-cue_517
somehow it should get more and more like no light at all.
L6-cue_518
#How, then, does this turn into that?
L6-cue_519
#Well, it turns out that light is not like a wave of water, but light also comes
L6-cue_520
in particle-like character called photon: as you turn down the intensity of the light,
L6-cue_521
you’re not turning down the effect; you’re turning down the of photon particle—like things
L6-cue_522
that are coming out of the source.
L6-cue_523
So as I turn down the light, I’m getting fewer and fewer photons.
L6-cue_524
The least I can scatter from an electron is one photon, and if I have too few photons, well,
L6-cue_525
sometimes the electron will get through,
L6-cue_526
and it just happened there wasn’t enough light—there was no photon coming by;
L6-cue_527
I didn’t see it.
L6-cue_528
A very weak light doesn’t mean a small disturbance; it just means a few photons.
L6-cue_529
#What happens is that I have to invent a third column.
L6-cue_530
#You see, you get a click over here.
L6-cue_531
I say, "I saw that one, that was in Number 1 Hole; this was behind Hole Number 2."
L6-cue_532
Then another comes: "Sorry, I didn’t see that"—there wasn’t enough light to give a photon
L6-cue_533
at that time, so there must be a third column under "didn’t see."
L6-cue_534
When the light is very strong there are very few in there.
L6-cue_535
When the light is very weak, most of them end in there.
L6-cue_536
That there are three columns, this one, this one, and, sometimes, in here.
L6-cue_537
#You can guess what happens.
L6-cue_538
#The ones I do see are distributed this way; the ones I didn’t see are distributed that way,
L6-cue_539
and as I turn the light weaker and weaker, well, I see less and less of them—with greater
L6-cue_540
and greater fraction are not seen.
L6-cue_541
The actual curve, in any case, is a mixture of this and this, and as the light gets weaker
L6-cue_542
so that fewer and fewer are seen, [it] gets more and more like that, in a continuous fashion.
L6-cue_543
In this case, if the electrons are not seen, and nothing bounced off the light
L6-cue_544
under those circumstances, you get this complicated pattern for those electrons
L6-cue_545
which were not seen—the ones in the column "didn’t see" are exactly distributed
L6-cue_546
in this complicated way, and the other two columns are in these two ways here.
L6-cue_547
#Now, you say, "I got another way to measure which hole it goes through."
L6-cue_548
I’m sorry, I haven’t got enough time to discuss a large number of different inventions
L6-cue_549
that you might have, to find out which hole the electron went through,
L6-cue_550
and what happens in each case.
L6-cue_551
It always turns out, however, that it’s impossible to arrange the light in any way,
L6-cue_552
so that you can tell through which hole the thing is going, without disturbing the pattern
L6-cue_553
of arrival of the electrons from this form to this form, without destroying the interference.
L6-cue_554
Not only light, but anything else—you use neutrinos—you use anything,
L6-cue_555
there’s [a] principle that it’s impossible to do it.
L6-cue_556
#You can, if you want, invent a way to tell which hole the electron’s going through.
L6-cue_557
Then it turns out it’s going through one or the other.
L6-cue_558
If you try to make that instrument so that at the same time it doesn’t disturb the motion
L6-cue_559
of the electrons, then what happens is you get back—you can’t tell anymore
L6-cue_560
which one it goes through, and you get this; if you can tell, you get this.
L6-cue_561
Heisenberg noticed, when he discovered the laws of quantum mechanics,
L6-cue_562
that the new laws of nature that he discovered could only be consistent
L6-cue_563
if there was some basic limitation to our experimental abilities
L6-cue_564
that had not been previously recognized.
L6-cue_565
#In other words, you can’t experimentally be as delicate
L6-cue_566
as you wish-and he proposed his uncertainty principle, which,
L6-cue_567
stated in terms of our experiment, is the following (he stated it in another way,
L6-cue_568
but they’re exactly equivalent; you can get from one to the other, but unfortunately,
L6-cue_569
I haven’t time to explain that)—in our experiment,
L6-cue_570
his uncertainty principle would be stated in this manner:
L6-cue_571
"it is impossible to design any apparatus whatsoever to determine
L6-cue_572
which hole the electron passes (if one succeeds in determining
L6-cue_573
which hole the electron passes—through which hole the elec—which can determine
L6-cue_574
through which hole the electron passes) that will not
L6-cue_575
at the same time disturb the electron enough to destroy the interference pattern."
L6-cue_576
#No one has found a way around this, and I’m sure you’re all itching with inventions as to methods
L6-cue_577
of detecting which hole the electron went through,
L6-cue_578
but if each one of them is analyzed carefully, you’ll find out there’s something the matter
L6-cue_579
with it— that if, without disturbing the electron, you think you can do it,
L6-cue_580
but it turns out there’s always something the matter—and you can account for the difference
L6-cue_581
in the patterns due to the disturbance of the instruments used to determine
L6-cue_582
through which hole the electron comes.
L6-cue_583
#Now this, therefore, is a basic characteristic of nature
L6-cue_584
and tells us something about everything.
L6-cue_585
If a new particle is found tomorrow, the kaon (actually it’s already been found—something,
L6-cue_586
give it a name)—let’s say a kaon, and I use kaons to interact with electrons to determine
L6-cue_587
which hole the electron is going through, I already know ahead of time (I hope) enough
L6-cue_588
about the behavior of the kaon to say that it cannot be of such a type that I could tell
L6-cue_589
through which hole the electron would go, without at the same time producing a disturbance
L6-cue_590
on the electron to change the pattern from here to here.
L6-cue_591
#The uncertainty principle is used as a general principle to guess ahead at many
L6-cue_592
of the characteristics of unknown objects, Think how?
L6-cue_593
limited in their character.
L6-cue_594
Well, then, let’s go back.
L6-cue_595
#What about this Proposition A?
L6-cue_596
Does it go either through one hole or the other, or not?
L6-cue_597
Well, physicists have a convention, a way of avoiding the pitfalls which exist,
L6-cue_598
and they make their game, their rules of thinking, as follows.
L6-cue_599
That if you have an apparatus which is capable of telling which hole the electron goes
L6-cue_600
through (and you can have such apparati),
L6-cue_601
then one can say that it either goes through one hole or the other.
L6-cue_602
#It does, when you look; it always is going through one hole or the other—when you look.
L6-cue_603
But when you do not try to determine, or you have no disturbance—no apparatus there
L6-cue_604
to determine through which hole a thing goes— under those circumstances,
L6-cue_605
you cannot say that it either goes through one hole or the other.
L6-cue_606
You could always say it, provided you stop thinking immediately
L6-cue_607
and don’t make any deduction from it; we prefer not to say it,
L6-cue_608
rather than to stop thinking at the moment.
L6-cue_609
#In other words, when we don’t look, we can’t say through which hole it’s going,
L6-cue_610
but if you try to look to see, you find that it always goes through one hole or the other.
L6-cue_611
#Still, to conclude that it goes either through one hole or the other when you’re not looking is
L6-cue_612
to produce an error in prediction.
L6-cue_613
That is the logical tightrope on which we have to walk if we wish to interpret nature.
L6-cue_614
This proposition that I’m talking about is more general.
L6-cue_615
It’s not just for two holes; it’s a general proposition—[it] reads something like this:
L6-cue_616
that the probability of any event in an ideal experiment (that just means
L6-cue_617
when everything is specified as well as it can be), the probability of an event is the square
L6-cue_618
of something, which I call "A" here, is called the probability amplitude—and
L6-cue_619
when an event can occur in several alternative ways, the probability amplitude—this
L6-cue_620
"A" number—is the sum of the A’s for each of the various alternatives; and finally,
L6-cue_621
if an experiment is performed which is capable of determining which alternative is taken,
L6-cue_622
the probability of the event is the sum of the probabilities
L6-cue_623
for each alternative—that is, you lose the interference.
L6-cue_624
Now, the question is, how does it really work?
L6-cue_625
#By what machinery is actually producing this thing?
L6-cue_626
#Well, nobody knows any machinery.
L6-cue_627
Nobody can give you a deeper explanation of this phenomenon
L6-cue_628
that I have given-that is, a description of it.
L6-cue_629
#They can give you a wider explanation, in the sense that they could do more examples
L6-cue_630
to show how it’s impossible to tell which hole it goes through,
L6-cue_631
and at the same time not destroy the interference pattern.
L6-cue_632
They can give a wider class of experiments than just the two—slit interference experiment,
L6-cue_633
and so on, but they’re all—it’s just repeating the same thing to drive it in.
L6-cue_634
#It’s not any deeper, it’s only wider: the mathematics can be made more precise;
L6-cue_635
you can mention that they’re complex numbers instead of real numbers,
L6-cue_636
and a couple of other minor points, which have nothing to do with the main idea.
L6-cue_637
#The deep mystery is what I describe, and no one can go any deeper today—but only wider.
L6-cue_638
#Now, I mentioned probabilities in this calculation.
L6-cue_639
What we’re calculating here, this curve, is the probability of arrival of an electron.
L6-cue_640
The question is, is there any way to determine where it really arrives?
L6-cue_641
We are not averse to using the theory of probability—that is,
L6-cue_642
calculating odds when a situation’s very complicated: you throw up a die,
L6-cue_643
and it spins so many times in the air with the various resistance, and atoms,
L6-cue_644
and all this complicated business that we’re perfectly willing to allow
L6-cue_645
that we don’t know enough details—and so we calculate the odds
L6-cue_646
that the thing’ll come this way or that way.
L6-cue_647
But here, what we’re proposing, is it not, is that there be probability all the way back
L6-cue_648
at the fundamental laws, that in the fundamental laws of physics there are odds.
L6-cue_649
For example, suppose that I have an experiment so set up that with the light out,
L6-cue_650
I get this interference situation, and know that.
L6-cue_651
Then I say that with the light on, I can’t predict through which hole it will go.
L6-cue_652
I only know that each time I look it’ll be one hole or the other, but there is no way
L6-cue_653
to predict ahead of time through which hole it goes.
L6-cue_654
The future, in other words, is unpredictable: it is impossible to predict in any way,
L6-cue_655
from any information ahead of time, through which hole the thing will go—or
L6-cue_656
which hole it will be seen behind.
L6-cue_657
That means that physics has kind of given up,
L6-cue_658
if the original purpose was (and everybody thought it was) to know enough
L6-cue_659
that in given a situation you could predict what’s going to happen next,
L6-cue_660
that given the circumstances you can predict what happens.
L6-cue_661
Here are the circumstances: source, strong light source; tell me,
L6-cue_662
behind which hole will I see the electron?
L6-cue_663
#You say, "Well, the reason you can’t tell through which hole you’re going
L6-cue_664
to see the electron is, it’s determined by some very complicated things back here:
L6-cue_665
if I knew enough about that electron—it has internal wheels, internal gears,
L6-cue_666
and so forth-and that this is what determines through which hole it goes.
L6-cue_667
It’s 50/50 probability because, like a die, it’s set sort of at random—and if I were
L6-cue_668
to have studied it carefully enough, your physics is incomplete:
L6-cue_669
if you get a complete enough physics, then you’ll be able
L6-cue_670
to predict through which hole it goes."
L6-cue_671
That’s the "hidden variable" theory, so called.
L6-cue_672
#Well, that’s not possible.
L6-cue_673
#It is not due to a lack of detailed knowledge that we cannot make a prediction,
L6-cue_674
because I said that if I didn’t turn on the light, I should get this interference pattern.
L6-cue_675
If I have a circumstance in which I get that interference pattern, then it is impossible
L6-cue_676
to analyze it in terms of saying, it goes through here or here, because that curve is
L6-cue_677
so simple, mathematically—a different thing than the contribution
L6-cue_678
of this and this as probabilities.
L6-cue_679
#So if it were possible for you to have determined through which hole it was going to go
L6-cue_680
if I had the light on, the fact that I had the light on hasn’t got anything to do with it!
L6-cue_681
Whatever gears there are back here that you observe, which permitted you
L6-cue_682
to tell me whether it was going to go through 1 or 2,
L6-cue_683
you could have observed if I had the light off.
L6-cue_684
And therefore you could have told me with the light off
L6-cue_685
which hole—each time an electron goes—which hole it’s going to go through.
L6-cue_686
But if you can do this, then that curve would have to be represented as the sum of those
L6-cue_687
that go through there and those that go through there—and it ain’t.
L6-cue_688
#Therefore, it’s impossible to have information ahead of time as to which hole it’s going to go
L6-cue_689
through when the light is out—or when the light is on, or out—in a circumstance
L6-cue_690
where the experiment is set up that can produce this interference pattern.
L6-cue_691
#It is not a lack of unknown gears—a lack
L6-cue_692
of internal complications—that makes nature have probability in it;
L6-cue_693
it seems to be in some sense intrinsic.
L6-cue_694
Someone has said it this way: "nature herself doesn’t know
L6-cue_695
which way the electron is going to go."
L6-cue_696
#A philosopher once said (a pompous one): "it is necessary for the very existence of science
L6-cue_697
that the same conditions always produce the same result."
L6-cue_698
#Well, they don’t: if you set up electrons in any way—I mean, you set up the circumstance here,
L6-cue_699
in the same conditions every time, and you cannot predict behind
L6-cue_700
which hole you’ll see the electron.
L6-cue_701
They don’t-and yet the science goes on in spite of him.
L6-cue_702
Although, the same conditions don’t produce the same results, that makes us unhappy,
L6-cue_703
that we can’t predict exactly what’ll happen.
L6-cue_704
#Incidentally, you can make a circumstance which is very dangerous and serious
L6-cue_705
and man must know and you still can’t predict.
L6-cue_706
For instance, we could cook up (I don’t know if we’d want to do that or not),
L6-cue_707
but we could cook up a scheme by which we arrange photo cells so that
L6-cue_708
if you see the electron—one electron’s going to go through—if we see it behind Hole Number 1,
L6-cue_709
we set off the atomic bomb, and start World War III.
L6-cue_710
If we see it behind Hole 2, we have—just make peace feelers,
L6-cue_711
and delay the war a little longer.
L6-cue_712
#Then the thing is, that the future of man would then be dependent upon something
L6-cue_713
which no amount of science can predict.
L6-cue_714
The world is-the future is unpredictable.
L6-cue_715
What is necessary for the very existence of science, and what the characteristics
L6-cue_716
of nature are, are not to be determined by pompous preconditions.
L6-cue_717
They’re to be determined—they are determined always by the material with which we work,
L6-cue_718
by nature herself: we look and we see what we’re going to find—what we find.
L6-cue_719
We cannot say ahead of time, successfully, what it’s going to look like.
L6-cue_720
The most reasonable possibilities turn out often not to be the situation.
L6-cue_721
What is necessary for the very existence of science is just the ability to experiment,
L6-cue_722
the honesty in reporting results—the results must be reported
L6-cue_723
without somebody saying what they’d like the results to have had been—and finally,
L6-cue_724
an important thing, is the intelligence to interpret the results, but important point
L6-cue_725
about this intelligence is: that it must not—it should not—be sure ahead
L6-cue_726
of time about what must be.
L6-cue_727
#Now, it can be prejudiced, and say, "That’s very unlikely—I don’t like that."
L6-cue_728
Prejudice is different than absolute certainty.
L6-cue_729
I don’t mean absolute prejudice, just bias—but not strict bias, not complete prejudice.
L6-cue_730
As long as you’re biased, it doesn’t make any difference, because if the fact is true,
L6-cue_731
there will be a perpetual accumulation of experiments to perpetually annoy you,
L6-cue_732
until they cannot be disregarded any longer.
L6-cue_733
#[They] only can be disregarded if you’re absolutely sure ahead of time
L6-cue_734
of some precondition that science has to have.
L6-cue_735
In fact, it is necessary for the very existence of science that minds exist, which do not allow
L6-cue_736
that nature must satisfy some preconceived conditions like those of our philosophers.
L6-cue_737
#Thank you.